Let's talk about strong and weak typing and a lot of people tend to use these terms interchangeably.
That is they tend to say oh a dynamic languages weakly typed and a static languages strongly typed which
simply isn't the case as you can see here on the graph.
You can have a Greek language that is statically typed and a strong language that is dynamically typed.
So let's make this clear.
Javascript is a dynamic language or dynamically typed language that is weakly typed.
What does that mean.
Well in javascript I can do this in javascript.
I can say variable A equals Booya and then I can go ahead and say plus 17
Bruja with 17.
That's what a weekly type language does.
Javascript says Hmm you're crazy.
You're trying to add a string to 17.
I think I know what you're trying to do.
I think you're just trying to add 17 to bruja.
So I'm just going to turn this 17 number into a string and do this and this is often called type coarsen
and Javascript and it can lead to some unintended consequences.
And a lot of people get annoyed at javascript for this feature.
Because in a strongly typed language you can do this for example in Python.
You can see that it's dynamic but strongly typed.
If we write some Python code let's say all do.
And I'm just going to use Python here.
Ignore the syntax.
So let's say variable is equal to bruja.
Again and then I'll do a or variable plus 17 here.
Well this is actually going to throw an error in Python because it's going to say whoa whoa whoa whoa
you crazy guy.
This is you're trying to add string and numbers.
That doesn't work.
And it's kind of throw an error because it strongly typed.
All right I hope that illustrates the point nicely for you.
Now there are once again pros and cons to doing this but this is beyond the scope of this course.
If you really want to get into it and trust me there's tons of information out there because people
are so strongly opinionated about these topics.
I do recommend checking them out.
Going on Google and typing strong versus weakly typed Let's get back on track here to our main topic
that is typescript.
How can we add typescript to make javascript typesafe.
All right I'm going to leave you in suspense.
I'll see you in the next video.
Babai.